
## Table of contents

- [Linux Daemon ETL  <a name="introduction"></a>](#linux-daemon-template)
  - [New-Style Daemons <a name="new_style_daemons"></a>](#new-style-daemons)
  - [How To Install <a name="how_to_install"></a>](#how-to-install)
  - [How To Start <a name="how_to_start"></a>](#how-to-start)

# Linux Daemon ETL  <a name="introduction"></a>

A daemon is a computer program that runs as a background process, rather than being under the direct control of an interactive user. Traditionally, the process names of a daemon end with the letter d, for clarification that the process is in fact a daemon, and for differentiation between a daemon and a normal computer program.

## New-Style Daemons <a name="new_style_daemons"></a>

Modern services for Linux should be implemented as new-style daemons. This makes it easier to supervise and control them at runtime and simplifies their implementation.

For developing a new-style daemon, none of the initialization steps recommended for SysV daemons need to be implemented. New-style init systems such as systemd make all of them redundant. Moreover, since some of these steps interfere with process monitoring, file descriptor passing and other functionality of the init system, it is recommended not to execute them when run as new-style service.

Note that new-style init systems guarantee execution of daemon processes in a clean process context: it is guaranteed that the environment block is sanitized, that the signal handlers and mask is reset and that no left-over file descriptors are passed. Daemons will be executed in their own session, with standard input connected to /dev/null and standard output/error connected to the systemd-journald.service logging service, unless otherwise configured. The umask is reset.


To know more about access [this Link](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/daemon.html#New-Style%20Daemons).

To avoid mistakes when designing Unix daemon programs read [this link](https://jdebp.eu/FGA/unix-daemon-design-mistakes-to-avoid.html).


## How To Install <a name="how_to_install"></a>

**Tested on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS**

Firt you need to check if all dependencies are available.

The library [libconfig++](https://hyperrealm.github.io/libconfig/) is used to read the config file.
```bash
sudo apt install libconfig++-dev
```

Clone the git repository, compile and install.

```bash
git clone git@github.com:Jeket/daemon-etl.git
cd cpp-daemon-etl
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
sudo make install
```

## How To Start <a name="how_to_start"></a>

To start, stop and check the state of the daemon use the follow commands.

```bash
sudo systemctl start daemon-etl

sudo systemctl stop daemon-etl

sudo systemctl status daemon-etl
```
To see the all syslog:

```bash
tail -f /var/log/syslog
```
To see the all logs generated by the daemon:

```bash
tail -f /var/log/syslog | grep daemon-etl
```
